2. What is Raspberry Pi? Explain Raspberry Pi board with various components?
Ans: The Raspberry Pi is a low cost, credit-card sized computer that plugs into a computer
monitor or TV, and uses a standard keyboard and mouse. It is a capable little device that
enables people of all ages to explore computing, and to learn how to program in languages
like Scratch and Python. It’s capable of doing everything you’d expect a desktop computer to
do, from browsing the internet and playing high-definition video, to making spreadsheets,
word-processing, and playing games.

Here are the various components on the Raspberry Pi board:

●  ARM CPU/GPU -- This is a Broadcom BCM2835 System on a Chip (SoC) that's
    made up of an ARM central processing unit (CPU) and a Videocore 4 graphics
    processing unit (GPU). The CPU handles all the computations that make a computer
    work (taking input, doing calculations and producing output), and the GPU handles
    graphics output.

● GPIO -- These are exposed general-purpose input/output connection points that will
    allow the real hardware hobbyists the opportunity to tinker.

● RCA -- An RCA jack allows connection of analog TVs and other similar output
    devices.

● Audio out -- This is a standard 3.55-millimeter jack for connection of audio output
    devices such as headphones or speakers. There is no audio in.

● LEDs -- Light-emitting diodes, for all of your indicator light needs.

● USB -- This is a common connection port for peripheral devices of all types
    (including your mouse and keyboard). Model A has one, and Model B has two. You
    can use a USB hub to expand the number of ports or plug your mouse into your
    keyboard if it has its own USB port.

● HDMI -- This connector allows you to hook up a high-definition television or other
    compatible device using an HDMI cable.

● Power -- This is a 5v Micro USB power connector into which you can plug your
    compatible power supply.

● SD cardslot -- This is a full-sized SD card slot. An SD card with an operating system
    (OS) installed is required for booting the device. They are available for purchase from
    the manufacturers, but you can also download an OS and save it to the card yourself if
    you have a Linux machine and the wherewithal.
    
● Ethernet -- This connector allows for wired network access and is only available on
        the Model B.

Many of the features that are missing, such as WiFi and audio in, can be added using the USB
port(s) or a USB hub as needed. Next: More details on the device itself and its compatible
operating systems.
